# Migrate from Docker Cloud to something else ... #

Tags: docker, cluster

I just found that adding any next node to Docker Cloud costs $15 per month. I wasn't aware of it. Information is not clear enough presented while starting your first node. I understand business approach and I think price is good for business but for my purposes it's killer. I pay about $1 for small machine per month so $15 for managing it makes 15 times more and I don't think it makes much sense in my case. 

Anyway - impossibility to be to lazy forces us to learn. So it's time to learn something :) 

I would love to achieve as much automation as possible on self managed "cluster". I made "cluster" in semicolons because I have each machine separate as in this price I do not have possibility to connect them in single network. It makes first requirement about connection. Second thing is that I don't want to take care of data location and I want to be able to scale "cluster" up and down. That makes requirement for distributed file system. 

After couple hours of thinking dream stack would be: 

* machines have to communicate over some VPN - OpenVPN? 
* replicated distributed file system would be nice - GlusterFS? 
* some configuration management tool to setup it all and scale with ease - Ansible
* container distribution manager - Docker Swarm + Portainer

So I will start with Ansible to be able to connect to all machines - lets make it 3 at the beginning. When I connect to them I will create OpenVPN central machine and 2 clients. Next step will be to configure GlusterFS and it's replication. I don't need much space but in case of some need to focus on other topics I will want to scale "cluster" to one machine but leave data intact. Replication makes perfect sense. Last thing is Docker Swarm with Portainer. If one thinks of containers distribution it's Kubernetes, Docker Swarm or DC/OS. I know Kubernetes and would love to investigate Docker Swarm more. DC/OS has huge resource requirements for my testing setup and I will use it on some heavier machines in future.  

Im still not sure about OpenVPN and GlusterFS. It requires some more documentation digging.  